docs(cdk-experimental/menu): add initial documentation for cdk menu directives (#20412)
angular/components: src/cdk-experimental/menu/menu.md

> The `@angular/cdk-experimental/menu` module provides you with a way to easily create complex menu interfaces with support for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@angular/cdk-experimental/menu` module provides directive to help create custom menu interactions based on the [WAI ARIA specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.1/).
```

- Standalone Menus
- Menubars
- Context Menus
- Inline Menus
- MenuItems
- RadioButtonItems

> - CheckboxItems

Reviewer: I would break this into a section called "Supported ARIA roles" and use the role names from the spec, combining with some of the text you have below.

`@angular/cdk-experimental/menu` can also intelligently predict if a user is attempting to navigate to an open submenu and prevent premature closeouts.

> 

Reviewer: I would move this to its own section named something like "Smart menu aim" that outlines what it does (potentially with a diagram) and a very brief explanation of how it works.

By using `@angular/cdk-experimental/menu` you get all of the expected behaviors following aria best practices including consideration for left-to-right and right-to-left layouts, and accessible interaction. Further, all directives apply their associated aria roles to the component they are added to.

### Getting started

Start by importing the `CdkMenuModule` into the `NgModule` where you want to create menus. You can now add the various directives in order to build out your menu. A basic standalone menu consists of the following directives:

- `cdkMenuItem` - added to the button itself
- `cdkMenuTriggerFor` - links a trigger button to a menu you intend to open
- `cdkMenuPanel` - wraps the menu and provides a link between the `cdkMenuTriggerFor` and the `cdkMenu`
- `cdkMenu` - the actual menu you want to open

<!-- TODO basic standalone menu example (like mat-menu has) -->

> Keep in mind that there are two important requirements which must be kept in mind when building menus:
> 
> First, a triggering component, or a component inside of a `CdkMenu` or `CdkMenuBar`, must have the `cdkMenuItem` directive like so,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most menu interactions consist of two parts: a trigger and a menu panel.

#### Triggers
(talk about buttons and menu-bars here)

#### Menu panels
(talk about cdkMenuPanel here)
```

<!-- TODO basic context menu example -->

Context menu triggers may be nested within parent contexts and when a user right clicks, the deepest context menu in which the user is hovering in is opened up.

```html
<div [cdkContextMenuTriggerFor]="outer">
  My outer context
  <div [cdkContextMenuTriggerFor]="inner">
    My inner context
  </div>
</div>
```

In the example above, right clicking on "My inner context" will open up the "inner" menu and right clicking inside "My outer context" will open up the "outer" menu.

### Inline Menus

Inline menus are groups of menu items which typically do not trigger their own menus and the menu items implement some type of on-click behavior. The benefit of using an inline menu over a group of standalone menu items is that inline menus provide keyboard navigation and focus management. Menu items within an inline menus are logically grouped together.

<!-- TODO inline menu example (gmail buttons?) -->

> ### Menuitem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Menu items
```
(similar for other headers)

#### Groups

By default `cdkMenu` acts as a group for `cdkMenuItemRadio` elements. That is, components marked with `cdkMenuItemRadio` added as children of a `cdkMenu` will be logically grouped and only a single component can have the checked state.

If you would like to have unrelated groups of radio buttons within a single menu you should use the `cdkMenuGroup` directive.

```html
<ng-template cdkMenuPanel #panel="cdkMenuPanel">
  <div cdkMenu [cdkMenuPanel]="panel">
    <!-- Font size -->
    <div cdkMenuGroup>
      <button cdkMenuItemRadio>Small</button>
      <button cdkMenuItemRadio>Medium</button>
      <button cdkMenuItemRadio>Large</button>
    </div>
    <hr />
    <!-- Paragraph alignment -->
    <div cdkMenuGroup>
      <button cdkMenuItemRadio>Left</button>
      <button cdkMenuItemRadio>Center</button>
      <button cdkMenuItemRadio>Right</button>
    </div>
  </div>
</ng-template>
```

Note however that when the menu is closed and reopened any state is lost. You must subscribe to the groups `change` output, or to `cdkMenuItemToggled` on each radio item and track changes your self.

<!-- TODO standalone menu example with checkboxes and grouped radios -->

> ### Accessability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Accessibility
```

The set of directives defined in `@angular/cdk-experimental/menu` follow accessability best practices as defined in the [aria spec][1]. Specifically, the menus are aware of left-to-right and right-to-left layouts and opened appropriately however it is up to you to handle any related styling. Further, screen readers are supported however you should add `aria-label` or `aria-labelledby` if menu items do not have text. Finally, keyboard interaction is supported as defined in the [aria menubar keyboard interaction spec][2].

<!-- links -->

> [1]: https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.1/#menu 'Aria Menubar Pattern'
> [2]: https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.1/#keyboard-interaction-12 'Aria Menubar Keyboard Interaction'

Reviewer: I'm trying to get away from using numbered links now and instead using links with names, e.g.
```suggestion
[menubar]: https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.1/#menu 'Aria Menubar Pattern'
[keyboard]: https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.1/#keyboard-interaction-12 'Aria Menubar Keyboard Interaction'
```

The `@angular/cdk-experimental/menu` module provides directives to help create custom menu
interactions based on the [WAI ARIA specification][aria].

> By using `@angular/cdk-experimental/menu` you get all of the expected behaviors following the ARIA
> best practices including consideration for left-to-right and right-to-left layouts, and accessible
> interaction. Further, all directives apply their associated ARIA roles to the component they are
> added to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using `@angular/cdk-experimental/menu` you get all of the expected behaviors for an accessible experience, including bidi layout support, keyboard interaction, and focus management. All directives apply their associated ARIA roles to their host element.
```

### Smart Menu Aim

`@angular/cdk-experimental/menu` intelligently predicts when a user intends to navigate to an open
submenu and prevent premature closeouts. This functionality prevents users from having to hunt
through the open menus in a maze-like fashion to reach their destination.

![menu aim diagram][diagram]

As demonstrated in the diagram above we first track the user's mouse movements within a menu. Next,
when a user mouses into a sibling menu item (e.g. Share button) the sibling item asks the Menu Aim
service if it can perform its close actions. In order to determine if the current submenu can be
closed out, the Menu Aim service calculates the slope between a selected target coordinate in the
submenu and the previous mouse point, and the slope between the target and the current mouse point.
If the slope of the current mouse point is greater than the slope of the previous that means the
user is moving towards the submenu and we shouldn't close out. Users however may sometimes stop
short in a sibling item after moving towards the submenu. The service is intelligent enough the
detect this intention and will trigger the next menu.

### Accessibility

> The set of directives defined in `@angular/cdk-experimental/menu` follow accessability best

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The set of directives defined in `@angular/cdk-experimental/menu` follow accessibility best
```

practices as defined in the [ARIA spec][menubar]. Specifically, the menus are aware of left-to-right
and right-to-left layouts and opened appropriately. You should however add any necessary CSS styles.
Menu items should always have meaningful labels, whether through text content, `aria-label`, or

> `aria-labelledby` Finally, keyboard interaction is supported as defined in the [ARIA menubar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`aria-labelledby`. Finally, keyboard interaction is supported as defined in the [ARIA menubar
```

interactions based on the [WAI ARIA specification][aria].

By using `@angular/cdk-experimental/menu` you get all of the expected behaviors following the ARIA
best practices including consideration for left-to-right and right-to-left layouts, and accessible
interaction. Further, all directives apply their associated aria roles to the component they are
added to.

### Supported Aria Roles

The directives provided by `@angular/cdk-experimental/menu` automatically provide the related roles
for each component they are placed on.

| Directive           | ARIA Role        |
| ------------------- | ---------------- |
| CdkMenuBar          | menubar          |
| CdkMenu             | menu             |
| CdkMenuGroup        | group            |
| CdkMenuItem         | menuitem         |
| CdkMenuItemRadio    | menuitemradio    |
| CdkMenuItemCheckbox | menuitemcheckbox |

### Getting started

Start by importing the `CdkMenuModule` into the `NgModule` where you want to create menus. You can
now add the various directives in order to build out your menu. A basic standalone menu consists of
the following directives:

> - `cdkMenuItem` - added to the button itself

Reviewer 2: Which button? (There's talk of multiple buttons here.)

desktop app menubar. It consists of at least one `CdkMenuItem` which triggers a submenu. A menubar
can be layed out horizontally or vertically (defaulting to horizontal). If the style is changed, the
`orientation` attribute must be set to match in order for the keyboard navigation to work properly
and for menus to open up in the correct location.

The primary difference between a menubar and a standalone menu is the menubar groups together the
triggering components. Therefore, menus in a menubar can be opened/closed when hovering between
their triggers and keyboard navigation listens to left and right arrow buttons which toggles between
the menu items in the menubar.

<!-- TODO basic menubar example (google docs?) -->

### Context Menus

A context menu is a menu which opens on a right click which occurs within some context component. A
context is an area of your application which contains some content where you want to open up a menu.
When a user right-clicks within the context the associated menu opens up next to their cursor - as
you would expect with a typical right click menu.

<!-- TODO basic context menu example -->

> Context menu triggers may be nested within parent contexts and when a user right clicks, the deepest

Reviewer 2: This could be clearer. 'Nested components can have context menu triggers at each level. When a user right clicks, the menu associated with the deepest component the user is hovering over is opened up.'

context menu in which the user is hovering in is opened up.

```html
<div [cdkContextMenuTriggerFor]="outer">
  My outer context
  <div [cdkContextMenuTriggerFor]="inner">
    My inner context
  </div>
</div>
```

In the example above, right clicking on "My inner context" will open up the "inner" menu and right
clicking inside "My outer context" will open up the "outer" menu.

### Inline Menus

> Inline menus are groups of menu items which typically do not trigger their own menus and the menu

Reviewer 2: This could also be clearer -- emphasize that the menu doesn't 'pop up', but all menu items are displayed from the start.

> items implement some type of on-click behavior. The benefit of using an inline menu over a group of

Reviewer 2: 'implement some type of on-click behavior' should be clear enough that you can omit it. (You say from the start that these are groups of menu items, which usually have on-click behavior.)

Author: During our feedback session some thought that a trigger can open a submenu when placed inline. I want to emphasize that it shouldn't be the case.

standalone menu items is that inline menus provide keyboard navigation and focus management. Menu
items within an inline menus are logically grouped together.

<!-- TODO inline menu example (gmail buttons?) -->

### Menu Items

Components which interact with or are placed inside of a menu or menubar should typically have the
`cdkMenuItem` directive provided. This directive allows the items to be navigated to via keyboard
interaction.

A menuitem by itself can provide some user defined action by hooking into the `cdkMenuItemTriggered`
output. An example may be a close button which performs some closing logic.

```html
<ng-template cdkMenuPanel #panel="cdkMenuPanel">
  <div cdkMenu [cdkMenuPanel]="panel">

>     <button cdkMenuItem [cdkMenuItemTriggered]="closeApp()">Close</button>

Reviewer 2: Should this be (cdkMenuItemTriggered), instead of [...]? (If not, this is noteworthy, and should be explained -- with a TODO to switch to the regular style.)

Author: Good catch! It should use parentheses

the `cdkMenuItemRadio` directive does not need the additional `cdkMenuItem` directive.

#### Groups

By default `cdkMenu` acts as a group for `cdkMenuItemRadio` elements. That is, components marked
with `cdkMenuItemRadio` added as children of a `cdkMenu` will be logically grouped and only a single
component can have the checked state.

If you would like to have unrelated groups of radio buttons within a single menu you should use the
`cdkMenuGroup` directive.

```html
<ng-template cdkMenuPanel #panel="cdkMenuPanel">
  <div cdkMenu [cdkMenuPanel]="panel">
    <!-- Font size -->
    <div cdkMenuGroup>
      <button cdkMenuItemRadio>Small</button>
      <button cdkMenuItemRadio>Medium</button>
      <button cdkMenuItemRadio>Large</button>
    </div>
    <hr />
    <!-- Paragraph alignment -->
    <div cdkMenuGroup>
      <button cdkMenuItemRadio>Left</button>
      <button cdkMenuItemRadio>Center</button>
      <button cdkMenuItemRadio>Right</button>
    </div>
  </div>
</ng-template>
```

Note however that when the menu is closed and reopened any state is lost. You must subscribe to the

> groups `change` output, or to `cdkMenuItemToggled` on each radio item and track changes your self.

Reviewer 2: How do you specify which item should be checked to start?

Author: There's a `checked` input - I'll add that to the doc.

<!-- TODO standalone menu example with checkboxes and grouped radios -->

### Smart Menu Aim

`@angular/cdk-experimental/menu` can also intelligently predict if a user is attempting to navigate
to an open submenu and prevent premature closeouts. This functionality prevents users from having to
hunt through the open menus in a maze-like fashion in order to get to their destination.

![menu aim diagram][diagram]

As demonstrated in the diagram above we first track the users mouse movements within a menu. Next,

> when a user mouses into a sibling menu item (e.g. Share button) the sibling item asks the Menu Aim

Reviewer 2: "user's mouse movements"

service if it can perform its close actions. In order to determine if the current submenu can be
closed out, the Menu Aim service calculates the slope between a selected target coordinate in the
submenu and the previous mouse point, and the slope between the target and the current mouse point.
If the slope of the current mouse point is greater than the slope of the previous that means the
user is moving towards the submenu and we shouldn't close out. Finally, as the user mouses into
other sibling triggers, as long as the slope of the current mouse movement is steeper than the
previous, it assumes that the user is moving towards the submenu. Users however may sometimes stop

> short in a sibling item after moving towards the submenu therefore the service is intelligent enough

Reviewer 2: This is a bit of a run-on sentence.

added to.

### Supported Aria Roles

The directives provided by `@angular/cdk-experimental/menu` automatically provide the related roles
for each component they are placed on.

| Directive           | ARIA Role        |
| ------------------- | ---------------- |
| CdkMenuBar          | menubar          |
| CdkMenu             | menu             |
| CdkMenuGroup        | group            |
| CdkMenuItem         | menuitem         |
| CdkMenuItemRadio    | menuitemradio    |
| CdkMenuItemCheckbox | menuitemcheckbox |

### Getting started

Start by importing the `CdkMenuModule` into the `NgModule` where you want to create menus. You can
now add the various directives in order to build out your menu. A basic standalone menu consists of
the following directives:

- `cdkMenuItem` - added to each button
- `cdkMenuTriggerFor` - links a trigger button to a menu you intend to open
- `cdkMenuPanel` - wraps the menu and provides a link between the `cdkMenuTriggerFor` and the
  `cdkMenu`
- `cdkMenu` - the actual menu you want to open

<!-- TODO basic standalone menu example (like mat-menu has) -->

Most menu interactions consist of two parts: a trigger and a menu panel.

#### Triggers

> A triggering component must have the `cdkMenuItem` and `cdkMenuTriggerFor` directives like so,

Author: A trigger does need `cdkMenuItem`, also if you don't add `cdkMenuItem` to a regular button keyboard navigation won't work as expected - I'll make that clear.

you would expect with a typical right click menu.

<!-- TODO basic context menu example -->

Nested components can have context menu triggers at each level. When a user right clicks, the menu
associated with the deepest component the user is hovering over is opened up.

```html
<div [cdkContextMenuTriggerFor]="outer">
  My outer context
  <div [cdkContextMenuTriggerFor]="inner">
    My inner context
  </div>
</div>
```

In the example above, right clicking on "My inner context" will open up the "inner" menu and right
clicking inside "My outer context" will open up the "outer" menu.

### Inline Menus

Inline menus are groups of menu items which typically do not trigger their own menus and the menu
items implement some type of on-click behavior. Unlike triggered menus which are opened up from some
menu item, inline menus do not pop up - they are always visible. The benefit of using an inline menu
over a group of standalone menu items is that inline menus provide keyboard navigation,
accessibility and focus management. Menu items within an inline menus are logically grouped
together.

<!-- TODO inline menu example (gmail buttons?) -->

### Menu Items

> Components which interact with or are placed inside of a menu or menubar should typically have the
> `cdkMenuItem` directive provided. This directive allows the items to be navigated to via keyboard
> interaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both menu and menubar elements should exclusively contain menuitem elements.
```

> A menuitem by itself can provide some user defined action by hooking into the `cdkMenuItemTriggered`

Reviewer: Not something I noticed before, but why is there a custom output for this rather than just `click`?

Author: I needed a way to hook into the user defined action in order to trigger it from a keyboard action or programatically.

output. An example may be a close button which performs some closing logic.

```html
<ng-template cdkMenuPanel #panel="cdkMenuPanel">
  <div cdkMenu [cdkMenuPanel]="panel">
    <button cdkMenuItem (cdkMenuItemTriggered)="closeApp()">Close</button>
  </div>
</ng-template>
```

> `cdkMenuItem` should also be added to a component which triggers a menu or submenu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create nested menus by using a menuitem as the trigger for another menu.
```

```html
<ng-template cdkMenuPanel #panel="cdkMenuPanel">
  <div cdkMenu [cdkMenuPanel]="panel">
    <button cdkMenuItem [cdkMenuTriggerFor]="submenu">Open Submenu</button>
  </div>
</ng-template>
```

A menuitem also has two sub-types, neither of which should trigger a menu: CdkMenuItemCheckbox and
CdkMenuItemRadio

#### Menu Item Checkboxes

> A component with the `cdkMenuItemCheckbox` directive behaves just as you would expect a typical
> checkbox to behave. A use case may be toggling an independent setting since it contains a checked
> state. A component with the `cdkMenuItemCheckbox` directive does not need the additional
> `cdkMenuItem` directive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `cdkMenuItemCheckbox` is a special type of menuitem that behaves as a checkbox. You
can use this type of menuitem to toggle items on and off.
```

#### Menu Item Radios

> A `cdkMenuItemRadio` behaves as you would expect a radio button to behave. A use case may be
> toggling through more than one state since radio buttons can be grouped together. A component with
> the `cdkMenuItemRadio` directive does not need the additional `cdkMenuItem` directive.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `cdkMenuItemRadio` is a special type of menuitem that behaves as a radio button. You
can use this type of menuitem for menus with exclusively selectable items.

```

Author: I think leaving `A component with the
`cdkMenuItemRadio` directive does not need the additional `cdkMenuItem` directive.` is worth it. Thoughts?

Here and for checkbox

#### Groups

> By default `cdkMenu` acts as a group for `cdkMenuItemRadio` elements. That is, components marked
> with `cdkMenuItemRadio` added as children of a `cdkMenu` will be logically grouped and only a single
> component can have the checked state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default `cdkMenu` acts as a group for `cdkMenuItemRadio` elements. Elements
with `cdkMenuItemRadio` added as children of a `cdkMenu` will be logically grouped and only a single
item can have the checked state.
```

If you would like to have unrelated groups of radio buttons within a single menu you should use the
`cdkMenuGroup` directive.

```html
<ng-template cdkMenuPanel #panel="cdkMenuPanel">
  <div cdkMenu [cdkMenuPanel]="panel">
    <!-- Font size -->
    <div cdkMenuGroup>
      <button cdkMenuItemRadio>Small</button>
      <button cdkMenuItemRadio>Medium</button>
      <button cdkMenuItemRadio>Large</button>
    </div>
    <hr />
    <!-- Paragraph alignment -->
    <div cdkMenuGroup>
      <button cdkMenuItemRadio>Left</button>
      <button cdkMenuItemRadio>Center</button>
      <button cdkMenuItemRadio>Right</button>
    </div>
  </div>
</ng-template>
```

Note however that when the menu is closed and reopened any state is lost. You must subscribe to the
groups `change` output, or to `cdkMenuItemToggled` on each radio item and track changes your self.
Finally, in order to provide the state each item accepts a `checked` state attribute.

<!-- TODO standalone menu example with checkboxes and grouped radios -->

### Smart Menu Aim

> `@angular/cdk-experimental/menu` can also intelligently predict if a user is attempting to navigate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`@angular/cdk-experimental/menu` intelligently predicts when a user intends to navigate
```
nit: some passive voice, brevity

to an open submenu and prevent premature closeouts. This functionality prevents users from having to

> hunt through the open menus in a maze-like fashion in order to get to their destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
hunt through the open menus in a maze-like fashion to reach their destination.
```

![menu aim diagram][diagram]

As demonstrated in the diagram above we first track the user's mouse movements within a menu. Next,
when a user mouses into a sibling menu item (e.g. Share button) the sibling item asks the Menu Aim
service if it can perform its close actions. In order to determine if the current submenu can be
closed out, the Menu Aim service calculates the slope between a selected target coordinate in the
submenu and the previous mouse point, and the slope between the target and the current mouse point.
If the slope of the current mouse point is greater than the slope of the previous that means the
user is moving towards the submenu and we shouldn't close out. Users however may sometimes stop
short in a sibling item after moving towards the submenu. The service is intelligent enough the
detect this intention and will trigger the next menu.

### Accessibility

The set of directives defined in `@angular/cdk-experimental/menu` follow accessability best
practices as defined in the [ARIA spec][menubar]. Specifically, the menus are aware of left-to-right

> and right-to-left layouts and opened appropriately however it is up to you to handle any related

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and right-to-left layouts and opened appropriately. Application could should add any necessary CSS styles.
```

> styling. Further, screen readers are supported but you should add `aria-label` or `aria-labelledby`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
styling. Menu items should always have meaningful labels, whether through text content, `aria-label`, or `aria-labelledby`
```
